and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show excited to be joined by
marcus
chan today marcus is a founder over at
wendley consulting group he helps
b2b sales professionals sell more and
sell
better without needing years of
experience through his coaching and his
training
programs marcus second time back on the
show how are you doing mate
hey you know what i'm so good i'm so i'm
so happy you did not ban me after the
first episode so i'm
super happy to invite you back for round
two we're gonna have a lot of fun today
can't wait
looking forward to it dude so today's
topic we've been talking all about
our business owners our sales reps how
we all can shorten our sales cycle
in 2021 we're gonna be talking through
kind of how we can overcome the the
dreaded um stallings
when people prospects go dark when
passwords go quiet how we can keep
opportunities moving nice and smoothly
from from start and and to end to
successful closing winning the business
and also if we can get to overcoming
common objections
um but i'd love to start off with marcus
which is something i'm sure we all get
frustrated with from time to time why do
why why do so many deals why do they go
quiet why do they get stalled why do
they get put on hold from your
experience
why is this such a common thing to
happen yeah
so i think you know first off when you
when you look at a sales process
or really just anything in general like
success leaves clues
failure leaves clues deals that stall
leave clues and if you had deal stall
before
that's okay it happened it's a very real
thing
and the key is is taking a look back to
deals that have stalled maybe deals is
even lost and seen
and asking yourself why are some of
these doll
deals stalling and there's some really
common things i see
quite often right like one most common
ones especially if you're selling to a
mid-size
or larger larger deal is not really
properly navigating the decision-making
process not
knowing who is all involved their level
impact the level
influence how they make decisions and
what that actually
looks like that's one super common one
because right there
if you don't do a good job on the front
end and you are presenting and pitching
and working the wrong person
then your chances of closing that deal
do go down because you are talking the
wrong people so
that's number one making sure that you
are talking to the right people
and you're navigating that process early
on that's the first thing
the second thing i see it happens quite
often is
not enough of the right work is done on
the front end
okay and and what i mean by that is you
know a lot of times i see
sales professionals they kind of do an
average to mediocre
discovery so they think they have an
idea about needs
and then they try to pitch to those
needs but if you don't do a good job
with a discovery truly uncovering the
needs of that person you're meeting with
but also
all the other decision makers how you
present your offer your pitch your demo
is drastically impacted because if say
for example
let's just say there's five people in
the decision making process
and each of them have their own five
pieces of criteria
so really there's like 25 different
things you got to make sure you can
really hit on for
all you know for all those people if you
only did
an average discovery on the front end
you may only presented three of those
things they need
and you may not even realize it and
here's the thing that's really tricky is
sometimes
even those other decision makers and
what they want even the primary decision
maker
they may not know those either yet they
may not know the criteria
until you ask them but they don't know
what they don't know so they don't they
they themselves do have clarity so as
you progress in the deal cycle
they're just unsure sure you're unsure
if what you can what you are selling
them can actually fulfill what they're
looking for
okay because when you think about it you
know when someone's looking to partner
up with you
for a business they're asking a couple a
couple of questions number one
does what you do actually work you know
like for for your business does does it
does it actually works
you actually work okay they want to know
number two will it work for them
okay you know and number three they can
get value out of it
is it truly worth it if they pay x
dollars will they get at least that if
not more back
by spending that much money with you and
if you can't if they can answer those
questions it's unlikely
they're going to want to move forward
with you so those probably the most
common common issues i see
that really leads to us deals stalling
yeah i'm completely with you that
discovery is a really really key
part of the sales process and in my
opinion i think it's one of the most
important
because if you miss stuff just like you
said if you miss stuff early on
it's going to come back and bite you in
the ass probably towards the end of the
deal to when it comes to closing because
you've missed out
quite like you said in point one you
might not have identified
who's involved in the decision process
you might not have identified clear
kind of problems or pains they're having
or kind of goals where they want to get
to
is that putting this into a tangible
format without going down too much of a
rabbit hole about discovery
as we've covered it on past episodes but
is there a simple
or simple framework or key few questions
and i know this is going to vary from
sector to sector marcus that you really
think
if you don't do x y and z on discovery
then you're doomed
you're gonna 100 fail the deal but if
you do follow this
simple framework then the chances are
you're going to be a lot more successful
in the back end when it comes to
actually asking for the business
yeah 100 right so um so we'll go through
a couple of different things you can
definitely understand the front and
right and
and the reason before i go into the
reason why this is so important is you
know because even if you have a really
you know great decision maker who's
definitely working with you and they're
very interacting with you
if you miss some of these core questions
on the front end that yes they might
meet with you more
yes they might have other calls but
every the more steps you add the more
friction there is to that deal closing
it doesn't mean that every deal is a one
call closed but if you can cut your
sales cycle down from having say
20 steps down to 10 steps or five steps
you will be better off on the long run
because
the more steps you add the more friction
there is the more chances your deal has
to go sideways now sometimes you can't
avoid it
just it is what it is but it's one of
those things where
it's it's kind of like this it's kind of
like if you a picture of discoveries
like this
it's like you're about to make a
delicious meal you know at your house
so you make sure you have all the
ingredients
in your fridge in your pantry in your
cupboard so you're ready to make that
delicious recipe
now if you don't have those ingredients
and you're like okay you start making
dinner oh you know what i need the spice
so you raise the store
okay now you're wasting time you come
back oh you know what i now need this
vegetable then i go back to the store
again
and come back oh i need this and go back
and now suddenly that dinner that would
have taken you 20 minutes to make
takes you two three hours to make
because you're you keep go back and
forth and the sales cycle's no different
you know if you could have closed that
one or two calls and
you you don't do a good job on the front
end now you're going back and forth
emails calls texts zoom calls back and
forth
and now your deal cycle gets spread out
for months
and that's not including any internal
things that company may have going on
that's not including
marketplace conditions that has going on
that can delay your sales process okay
so that's the first thing you got to
understand okay
does that make sense so far i love that
analogy that's one of the best analogies
i've actually heard when it comes to
discovery i love that linking it to
ingredients linking it to making a meal
and forgetting certain things and you
have to waste time and
yeah it's really nicely put yeah so so
now when you go into the discovery
um and i think first off even before the
discovery
you know hopefully if you did a good job
on the initial first outreach you know
on the phone
uh you know on the email whatever you
are making sure
they're at least pre-qualified so when
you get into a discovery you know
you know you have the primary decision
maker or one of the high level
influencers in that business that can
help you make a decision okay and you
also have an idea who's all involved
that's the first thing you want to do
because your sales cycle begins before
you even have
before you even have a first meeting
with them so it's super
valuable to do which is on the front end
good good point um
and before we even get into that if we
haven't discovery calls because
you mentioned quite rightly then marcus
because i've had troubles with this in
the past i've booked up discovery calls
with prospects
perhaps talked about where they are now
where their problems where they want to
get to and then we get towards the end i
talk about perhaps budget timeline
and they either have a really really
small budget that we can't even work
with or their time frame is ridiculous
and we can't work with that either
or there's just variations out of our
control so do you
advise before we even get to a initial
discovery call that could take 20 or so
minutes
that we actually clearly advise perhaps
whether it's
our budget's range starts from this or
our investment with us starts from x
to y to z and typical deliveries like
that just so we're
making kind of best use of our time our
prospects time but at the same time not
putting them off too much i mean i guess
there's a bit of a balance you've got to
strike with this right
yeah great question right so this is
actually why um yeah for sure
um you know i i like things like you
know band and stuff like that that can
be definitely very useful right in terms
of
you know doing that on the first call
but i think you'd be really careful as
well because
if you um let's just say for example if
the investment to work with your company
is thirty thousand dollars
and there's no real rapport trusts there
they haven't really seen value with you
yet
and depending on your marketplace
presence and you get on the call with
them
on the first call with them and you're
booking that time they're cool see you
there you're like hey cool
couple questions number one do you have
30k in capital ready to rock
well they might be like whoa hold on
hold on hold on you know
like they're like a little scared off
right there right um
so you know if you weren't going to ask
a question like that and you want to
make sure that you actually have
some funds but here's the thing here's
the thing about budgets okay
don't realize there's still money there
but it's going somewhere else
you can reallocate budgets if you are
the true
final decision maker you can always move
funds that's just what happens
okay that's what happens like the the
ultimate decision maker
why call the economic buyer right the
economic buyer
is the only person that can say no and
everyone says yes
and if and everyone else says no they
can say yes they can veto everyone out
all right if they said hey the budget
for you know for what
you know for your ex offer or your ex
you know for our budget for
seo this year is thirty thousand dollars
they can say you know what gone or they
can say you know what no we're going to
take some funds over here
and now it's 50. so now you can start
they can move money around so that's why
the budget thing you have to be kind of
careful with because
you may uh disqualify too early on
before you have the opportunity to
really uncover what they need
yeah and how they do things it's a tough
one and it's always
it is isn't it because sometimes you've
got to have these conversations you've
got to uncover certain issues that might
then
lead your prospect to think yes this
really is worth investing in
it's like how do i make best use of my
time i don't think there's one right
answer really whether to qualify too
early or to have the conversations i
guess it's all about striking the
balance
yeah so let's talk about that right so
i'll say on the first call before you
get into
the disco if you will you know when you
qualify them i personally like to
qualify just to make sure
that at least they are the right person
at the very minimum okay hey listen so
hey sam um you know i know you see a lot
of value in this meeting
aside from yourself if it's a good fit
to move forward in the process
is anybody else going to be part of this
meeting to move this move this ball down
the field
or something along those lines they say
oh no it's just me okay cool perfect hey
looking forward to seeing then boom done
i'm good there okay so now at least
because here's the thing the primary
decision maker
is a person that can make shifts okay
budget anything else needs etcetera
right so
they're because if what you're offering
is maybe a new way of doing things
they may have zero budget meaning they
need to create a budget for that
and that's okay that's okay or they go
get funding okay
people get funding all the time okay
like like people
forget you can go get funding if it's a
value it's gonna help their business
they go get funding
all right like for example i have people
that get they go my own my programs
they get funding they go to banks they
sell their cars
they sell bitcoin off to join my
programs right
because they understand it's an
investment so that's it's no different
so so now when you get into disco once
you're on the disco
okay um you'd often go through kind of a
typical kind of rapport question when
you kind of start off
you should definitely set up you know
some sort of upfront agenda or
some sort of gender or you know
agreement up front to really set the
tone of how the call is going to go
uh and i think first off it's there's a
couple things you understand you you do
want to
if you did you shouldn't research on the
business beforehand so you should have
an idea
what the business is all about okay like
you know what what have you seen on
their website what have you been seeing
social media have
been press releases what's important to
them you should have at least an idea
and your goal is just to quickly
validate quickly what those ideas are so
understand you you know number one you
know first you want to know hey what are
their goals
what do they really want to accomplish
the business this is important because
your solution needs a line to that right
what does that person you're talking to
what are their needs wants and desires
for the business
where do they want to go why is that
important to them okay
that's really really important right
from there you also want to cover
what are they currently doing for
whatever solution you're offering
do they do it in-house do they do
nothing do they have someone else
that's no problem okay and the goal here
is just you just want to know
what what's their exact status what are
they currently doing
okay so where are they right now yeah
where do they want to go with that
words is there's got to be some sort of
gap can is it is
it's either pain it's not getting
fulfilled or it's not getting the result
they want
you know which could also be a pain as
well so where is the gap from
where they are from what they're using
to where they want to go okay
so you want to cover basically what how
you can basically fulfill it
you also want to cover any type of
potential depending on how
technical what you sell is the
specifications that you actually need
all right so the things like if you were
if you were to put together a proposal
on the spot do you have all the details
sure it's really important right so just
to hone in on that a bit more marcus so
understanding someone's current state
that's fine you can just like you said
quite rightly you can ask kind of what
are they doing to tackle x now and it
might be they've got a solution in place
it might be they haven't might be
they're just thinking about it
um and understanding why that's
important when it comes to
like keenan coin creating the gap
between where they are now
their current state and their future
state where they want to get to or the
problem or the issue or
what's really grinding their gears
because they can't get to a certain
revenue goal
or they can't get to the growth goal
where they want to exit the company
what's one of the best ways to frame
that instead of just saying
hi customer what's your problem have you
got a good way to
i know again it's going to vary from
industry but is there a nice way that we
can rework
like what is the issue you're having
like so where do you want to get to with
x is there a
is there a good way that we can kind of
position that keep i think
it's keeping it really simple right so
if you start off with something like hey
you know hey sam
you know um i i took a look at your
website i'm so impressed you've won this
award this award this award i saw
all that so when you look at your
business obviously you've been very
successful
where do you see your business go in the
next three to five years
so now you you right there you're in the
future pace a little bit
getting to think about the future state
you know what i want to
um triple the size of my business you
know i want to have
operations all over here here and here
that sounds brilliant
uh and what are some what are some of
your plans to get there
so now you're just uncovering what the
plans are and what you really look for
potentially
areas where maybe your solution can help
fulfill that right if you will
or at least a line to get into that that
point okay
or maybe they haven't thought to that
and that's okay all right and then
you start uncovering you know what
whatever they're currently using if it's
seo hey what are you currently doing for
you know website optimization
you know you know search optimization
what are you currently doing oh you know
we're
we have in-house kai we're kind of doing
this okay cool so now you understand
where they're at
okay and then you just start digging a
little bit deeper you know
um why is that important to you
how does it help your business so it's
an important understand
why they have something in place and how
actually helps them
and the reason this is important this
drives into their buying behavior and
modes
because this will tell you they'll say
well the reason we hired an seo person
is because we want to make sure that uh
we're ranked on the first page
okay cool and why is that important to
you well because
uh when we write on first page when
people google us for
plumbers we're always making some
plumbers that were the first place to
show up
in uh portland oregon hmm okay and why
is that important to you
well we want this is how we get business
people googled all the time so we won't
be the first ones
the first call because we know it's all
about timing because if they're calling
a plumber
whoever answers first usually gets the
job
and why is that important well we get
more business okay cool so that
and is that going to help you reach the
the goals you have in three to five
years it is
beautiful digging deep
and you're mapping out you're really
uncovering what why it's there now they
started a little deeper it's like okay
cool
now if it's something like like that
it's such an easy google search
on the spot right you could be like
let's just look you up real quick wow
okay so i see right now you guys are
on page nine okay
what are some things you guys are doing
to get yourself as you can say probably
don't laugh when you're on the phone
yeah don't don't laugh on the phone
right but you get my point right
um now if it's not as visible like that
and you know and some people say hey you
know how you know like you know how can
your you know your current vendor
improve you know
you know what do you not like about them
if they're really tied their bed they're
not gonna tell you that can give you
much
so your goal is just to open up a little
bit and you have simple basic framework
questions and might not tell them hey
listen
so i know you haven't been for you know
x amount of time you know what are three
things that you would like them to do
more of for you
what are three things they can really
improve on for you
what are some areas you really want to
expand on so you can get
potentially a better result so you're
not you're not necessarily dissing them
but you're uncovering
where are they and where do they where
do they person actually want them there
okay yeah and obviously depending on the
conversation if they're like
it's like oh we had them forget about
you know we're just we're just not happy
okay tell me a little more about that
that's that's that's the open that's an
opening right there right now you're not
always unlucky sometimes
depending on how how warm it is they
might be little resistant so that's why
it's having those softer
opening questions can open them up to
where they're gonna go
and then whatever they say digging
deeper why is that important to you
you know hey you know we're not we're
not really happy with it it could be
something just
you know what you think is irrelevant oh
we don't like how they're
not responsive okay tell me a little
more about that well
sometimes response times are just um you
know take too long and what do you mean
well we'll send them an email
about a question and they'll get back to
us okay well tell me a little more about
that
and this is also really important for
you can you qualify and disqualify them
because if they say something like well
i email them and it takes them at least
10 minutes to get back to me
oh okay all right well you might just be
a high maintenance customer
you might be a good fit right like i
might just have to cut you out right
here right
with that said marcus because this is
great this is all really useful stuff on
how we can open up our prospects
um so the old old saying people buy all
the motion and then justify of logic
are there certain things we should be
listening for when we're asking these
questions when we're really trying to
open them up and get to the root cause
of
their problems where they want to get to
and so on should we be listening to the
tone of their voice and if there's kind
of frustrations
like you said there so and i promise i'm
not paying marcus to talk about seo he's
picked that off at the top of his mind
um it just worked out it's worked out
right yeah it's working out nicely
um but yeah when we when we're digging
deep and they're perhaps saying like
this is an issue because of this
and in this case the person wanted to be
page one of google and they need to be
that because
people typically if they're looking for
service will call the first one
if we can hear in their voice they're
perhaps getting more frustrated is that
a good
nor are there certain things we should
be listening out for
where we can kind of really pin in that
these are key pain points and we need to
hone in on this when it comes to our
presentation or
our proposal great point so when you
hear that um
you want to open that more all right and
i want you to picture it it's like this
this is a bit of a graphic example so
you know earmuffs if you don't like
graphic examples but
anyways so when you when you hear that
type of frustration or even in the
the choice they the word choices they
use those are
signs to you they may have deeper things
on their mind they
maybe are thinking about but have not
verbalized quite yet
you know so for example if we said the
customer support thing
you know like you know sometimes you
know there's sometimes they're not
responsive
it's annoying okay that tone shift and
even that word annoying
hmm suddenly that should be a trigger
okay
and i want you to picture those type of
things as it's like a little wound
okay it's a little cut it's that cut
that bothers them
like i would cut my fingers the cut that
bothers them but they may not have done
anything yet
to change your situation to improve
situation so your
job as a sales professional is to now
open that wound up
all right you want to stick your fingers
inside that wound and rip it open
all right and you want to take your
handful of rock salt
and rub it inside okay inside the wound
and now it's bleeding everywhere okay
because then as a result now
they're gonna take action they're gonna
do something they're gonna get more
emotional that's okay
you want that now do it don't don't be a
jerk face about this
be a pro be a pro about this now i
exaggerate a little bit but my point is
now it's like okay wow you know what
your goal is you need them to realize
they need to take action because if
if it's annoying so why is that noise
let's say it's a week okay so okay so
if they say oh it takes a week to get
back to them well that's that's really
frustrating
so man how does that make you feel oh
it's terrible well how does it impact
you what's bad how's it impact you well
shoot like you know if the words on our
website are wrong
customers see that we look
unprofessional we can lose business wow
how
and how many customers do you think
potential customers see yourself every
day hundreds
so you're telling me hundreds of people
seriously every single day the
misspelling is that right
yes wow and how that impacts your
company
if you just even lost one deal a month
off this
well one deal is like 20 000. so you
lost one deal on 20 000 so
that's 240 thousand dollar losses is
that right
yeah oh yeah so now suddenly
that little wound is tangible and it's
real and what i like
what i really like is this you're you're
never putting words into the prospect's
mouth either you're getting them to
literally say each part
so they're uncovering it for themselves
you're not saying this is a problem
you're getting them to open up you're
just simply asking the questions right
that's right so so now they themselves
are
fully aware of their own issues they
just didn't know
okay they just didn't know it's no
different than
when you go to the doctor you're feeling
okay you're gone i'm fine
and then take a look at some sort of
measurement look at something look at a
maul in your body they're like oh my
what is that you
you look at that remote immediately and
you're like what like
that looks weird you gotta get a cut out
asap okay
wow okay i bet i better go right now
there's urgency i gotta go right
you know i exaggerated a little bit but
my point is it's no different in sales
process especially
if you are selling something that's
really let's call it can be commoditized
if you will
right like if you're selling like uh i
talk to people in cyber security all the
time
you know it's like you know so the i.t
director they can get commoditized if
you will
people that sell you know
telecommunication same thing right so in
those types of situation you have to be
able to
create that pain emergency okay which
also helps with your sales cycle
so here's the thing again if there's no
pain there's no future opportunity
because there's really two there's two
modes
that people can be in that make them
take action okay so they're either in
growth mode
the business is growing they need to
have a solution that's a great place to
be in that's a great business to work
with okay this is why
people love to work with startups or
find startups because if they're well
funded
they're growing they need something okay
they may not have something in place
so it's easier to displace whatever
they're currently doing and
whatever they have already the second
one is uh they're in trouble mode
meaning
they're having issues like they are
having issues and those are usually the
ones
that are the reach out on the website
the website leads they reach out
and because they're like hey i realize i
got this problem and i need your help
those are probably the two hottest modes
to be in okay
then you have people that are neutral
which are like
whether i change or not it doesn't
really matter so your goal is to get to
neutral
get them to trouble mode okay or get in
the growth mode it's really give me a
trouble mode
then the worst one for them to be in is
ego meaning
they believe whatever they're doing is
absolute best they're like
no i promise you using pagers is the
best way to communicate
there's no better way we have to they're
overconfident
that's ego mode and those ones are very
hard
so you create a lot of pain to get to
that point okay you're my palms
spilling so far does that make sense
yeah the only thing i wanted to raise
was um
how do you know when to call it quits so
i i've been appreciate this is going to
be different for
every case but let's say we've attempted
to dig a little deeper
but then we found there's no real pain
there's no real problem there's no real
um fuel for growth they don't seem that
bothered they don't seem that keen to
grow with us or fix this problem
when do we know when to call it quits in
your opinion marcus
yeah great question so um now what you
also wanted to double check as well is
did you also make sure you're the right
people and play
do you have the right players okay we
haven't got to that point yet so because
if you're me with like a low level
decision maker who can't make any
decisions
and they're like well first off you
should have met with them it's always
your time
but maybe you did accidentally it
happens right it's life so
you want to make sure before you do all
the stuff you have all the right people
in play the right decision makers you
know what's important to each of them
all the same questions we asked earlier
basically the same for them as well
because each may have different
requirements of what they want this is
all before you present anything
okay so it's like you're getting all the
all the ingredients to the recipe
together
okay so then at that point you can make
a decision because
you know it's like if you if you did not
all right like it's a safe or maybe
if you say for example they are the
right decision maker but they're kind of
just like
at that point like they if you think
they're at least relatively qualified
if you can i would really just do a
quick pitch on the spot if there's
interest great if there's not
move on like don't spin your wheels with
someone who's not going to really take
the time don't chase them around
but sometimes some people are just no
matter what questions you ask no matter
how perfect the process you run
they're just going to be kind of
stonewalled till you show them something
shiny
that happens now hopefully
you did a good job in the discovery so
they are open to seeing something shiny
and they want to see something shiny all
right so at that point
you know after you get done with
everything you say you can say hey
listen okay cool so you know based off
what you told me so far
you know these are your goals this is
what you're looking for and this is what
you
if you make a switch this is what you
want is that right yes it is
okay cool hey you know like if you have
a demo deck
just do a demo deck round spot to show
them real quick hey you know what baits
what you told me about your goals here
here's how i can help you
and just go through hit only things are
important too
don't don't present irrelevant things
and then just literally ask them hey
listen like
just it's for all this just have a
ballpark it'll be roughly ballpark
don't do proposals for someone like that
hey ballpark wise it's going to be a
rough of like 30 grand
what do you think yeah stage their
feedback straight away stage their
feedback
they're like oh wow or like actually
yeah that's pretty reasonable okay cool
awesome
then they might say like well let me
think about it well don't leave then
okay don't leave that all right at that
point you really want to
you before you leave at that point you
really want to make sure
is it worth your time to continue to
pursue are they just saying
okay cool about let me think about if
they're just saying to me nice
or are they truly actually interested
they're just kind of you know the person
that keeps cars close to their chest
so you just dive a little deeper hey
cool awesome so um you know
help me understand a little bit that
sounds great take much time to think
about as you want
what exactly do you think about
break them down not break them down go
deeper go deeper
really uncover what what's really on
their mind what they really like
do they do they truly want x offer
yeah because i suppose on that note
marcus and we've all experienced it if
we've done any kind of business or
selling
there are kind of more analytic
analytical people
that do genuinely like to take things
away and think about it
there are on the other side of the coin
people that will say i need to think
about because they do want to blow you
off
um they might never work with you or
they might
take on the idea and trying to
themselves or whatever it may be they
decide to do
so yeah i guess guess to your point it's
it's asking more questions is it just to
kind of uncover what that thing about it
really means
isolate it down i saw exactly what
they want to think about and what
basically what are the obstacles that
are holding you back
from moving the deal forward that's what
you're looking for what are the in
because they may have internal
objections
or external objections okay internal or
maybe they're not sure about something
so you need to overcome it right maybe
or something extra extra something
outside their control
that maybe they're thinking about and
how to overcome it so you need
you need a couple of those obstacles all
those objections are so you can show
them why those
do not cease to exist that's really
important okay
now let's just say for example this is a
great now
do that first okay but there's gonna
still be a percentage of people i'll
call it's called 10 people out there who
are like still
i'm a think about a person i just i
never
make decisions on spot and your goal is
not to one call close
your goal is you're helping them
mentally process a commitment
right like because whether you sign
today is irrel it's really getting them
to walk through mentally
the commitment on their mind of choosing
you as a vendor
so now at that point if they're really
thinking about a person
you know i i it's very simple i say okay
cool so
um you know just so we're on the same
page you know because maybe
they're still not telling you what it is
you know on a scale of say you know
zero to a hundred hundred percent you
know
how uh how do you feel about working
with us
give me a gauge here okay yeah and
that's
very powerful right there because
they'll tell you they're like oh you
know oh man we're at least
50 50 after my incredible presentation
okay all right okay
okay 50 okay well um what can i
uh show you or answer for you to get you
from
you know maybe 52 let's call i mean i
deal 100
but at least higher somewhere higher
what could i do
so you're getting them to mentally
process now okay you know what
um it's just here's the thing that 50
they might say 30
it's really nothing to do with you i
literally have to go to the bank
i'll watch your stuff i have to get
funding that's it if i get approved for
funding
it's done oh okay cool awesome
now we're having a conversation now
we're having a business conversation
cool and whenever you can talk to the
bank i'm gonna after we get done i'm
gonna make i'm gonna go back to deposit
and i'm gonna i'm gonna set up a time
with them you know hopefully this week
and this making the loan hopefully
processed and approved
okay beautiful that sounds really good
so i understand you right
you um you are going to work with us you
just want to get the loan approved first
is that right
yes okay cool what if the loan doesn't
get approved
so now i'm i'm planning other steps no
um
uh if it doesn't get approved then i
can't work with you
okay well tell me more what do you mean
well i mean you know uh we just we don't
have the funds for that you know we
don't have 30k
uh in capitals working just to drop
right now
okay cool so what do you have well i
could probably you know start with 10k
okay cool um what else and how would you
get the rest of 20
i mean if we can't get funding then um
you know if we could work out some sort
of payment plan
okay cool so option one you go get
approved
option two we do 10k upfront and then we
do funding is that
or we we do a payment plan is that fair
yes beautiful okay cool
so what are you talking to the bank
today okay cool uh let's do this
today is thursday what's up time let's
give a little time to
go to the bank do all that stuff let's
set up a time monday afternoon
one o'clock you know i'll send you a
zoom in by africa down with this
we jump on a zoom we catch up to just
bring up the speed on exactly
what the bank said your pre-approval odd
stuff and then from there
if you get approved cool will go from
there if you don't we'll go ahead we'll
wire the 10k that same day
we'll do that we'll plan our plan we'll
get you rocking that monday is that cool
beautiful done nice yeah i love the
scale
um because like you said it could be
that they say a five
or less or more and they bring up to the
table
well actually it's out of my hands we're
actually waiting for this investment
um or the the business in the process of
selling or something completely out of
your control that you talked
nowhere near so the deal's totally
stolen so you just say look we'll pick
it up in six months
or on the other side of the scale they
could just say like you said we really
want to do it i just need to check if i
can get the funding
or i need to get buy-in for the
marketing director or we need to bring
this person in or i need to see
a man about a dog um so like you said
you're literally finding out exactly
what you need to get over the line and
then booking in that next step as you
as you mentioned yeah so pictures it's
like this it's like you're on a road
trip
you've gotten to your destination as far
as you can go today but you know you
where you want to go at the end
before you leave before you just get
your hardcore driving aimlessly and get
lost
all you want to do is get as much
clarity as possible on google maps
on how you get to the next step and you
also want to have contingencies in case
hey what if roads are closed okay what
if there's a storm and this road's gone
now you know like
you want contingency okay plan a plan b
b plan c
so you're basically it's like choose
your own adventure but now you know
how to walk through with them okay and
that's a very powerful way so i'll give
an example right so
um you know you know i have this uh this
opportunity i was working on this
earlier this week you know i had a
closing call for this friday
right and i told them there's really
three outcomes number one they basically
you know like
you know they get to get all their whole
team into my program you know number two
we figure out a funding option they
can't do that and then number three they
just tell me no they don't like me it's
fine i said i really
just 103 is good they sent me note today
they say hey this one's been absolutely
awesome
you know we're just going to hold off
right now because of whatever reason we
can go at number three
it's no no problem i'm good with that
like now i know i'm not going to waste
my time with them i'm not going to pass
it i'm not going to annoy them
now we're just having a business
conversation so now when they're ready
they're going to hit me up
right and that's okay that my sales
cycle just shortened drastically because
now i know
well i'm good you know it's not going to
be perfect every single time like that
was not going to prod
you know didn't close them obviously but
my point is is you have clarity
and clarity is power and as a business
professional sales professional
your time is your most valuable asset
you have so what you don't want to do
is not do these steps because if you
think about if you do exactly what we
discussed today
your sales cycle drastically cuts down
massively
because you're controlling you're making
sure you have all the ingredients to
bake your cake to make your dinner to
make your dish
in the kitchen shorten it down and then
plant the next steps
and if you can't get to that clothes
that's no problem then you just put them
into your hopper
you keep them warm you nurture them
maybe six months on the road they come
around
who knows but then you move on to the
next one and you just keep running the
business and when you do a job
consistently and you have a good
pipeline
you never worry about those deals you
don't hold on to that one deal
because you know you had a good
conversation nine months ago you don't
because you have so many deals on the
pipeline it's not a big deal
yep yep and that's that's i mean it's
all great all good stuff marcus it's
something when i
when i first got into sales which i've
talked about on some episodes before i
was kind of afraid to question
prospects so deeply but what you do like
we've
run through today is you really get a
solid understanding of where they're at
if they have got any problems if they
have got growth aspirations um
where they want to get to if it's really
worth them doing it
if they're if they're convinced that
they want to get there and if they're
convinced that you can help them get
there
and then kind of really digging deep
when it comes to decision makers when it
comes to their problems when it comes to
their budgets when it comes to time
frames which is going to give you all
the stuff that you need to ultimately
make best use of your time as you've
said
because then you can determine is this a
qualified prospect this is someone we
can actually help
um and then take it to the next step
whether it is
kind of closing looking to close the
deal there and then or if you're in kind
of
larger scale slower sales cycles then
perhaps looking to set up your
presentation or your demo or your
proposal however your sales funnel works
and i think as we're coming up for time
markers i think that would perhaps be a
good
next episode for us so perhaps on kind
of larger scale deals we could talk
about how to
kind of really run run the presentation
process so once we've done this
discovery once we get into kind of
setting up the perfect proposal the
perfect presentation to bring the larger
scales deals from kind of concept to
execution for sure man absolutely you're
absolutely right so i mean i think in
terms of today's episode
one of the simplest ways kind of
simplify or kind of tie it all together
right
the one the simplest ways and most
effective ways to shorten your sales
cycle
in today's time really any time is
number one make sure you the proper
homework walk in before you go into that
sales call so you know what you need
uncovered number two asking all these
right questions just so we asked today
to make sure they're properly qualified
and really digging deep
really digging digging deep and number
three having really clear
and direct next steps and expectations
on both
ends if you do all three like that
automatically you have a shorter sales
cycle you'll close deals faster you have
clarity on deals faster whether it's yes
or no
and you get out that maybe land where
you're just smoking that help you
yep two right man well marcus really
enjoyed the show dude thanks very much
for coming on as always and we'll
certainly have you get back on like i
say to
to chat through all things doing the
perfect proposal the perfect pitch the
perfect presentation which can be
massively valuable as we've not touched
on that too much just yet on the show
but with that said please do tell us
more about how everyone can connect with
you
how they can learn from you and how they
can do business with you sir
awesome man i appreciate that so first
off definitely go follow me on linkedin
look at marcus chance you only got
speedos and tagline
i think we discussed on a previous
episode you can figure out why this
video's in there
uh and then number two uh you know head
over to my website i got free training
resources on there
just head to uh six figure sales academy
dot com
six figure sales academy dot com head
over there boom i got
trainings there i got cool stuff in
there you know all sorts of things going
to help you sell more
100 free awesome man and be sure to
follow marcus over on linkedin he
recently got the um
sales store star or you got some kind of
reward recently right
yeah yeah linkedin this like top voice
award down it's not basic
top 10 out of like 300 million it's not
a big deal yeah decent man but you're
putting out
quality sales content all the time so
hit him up over there but apart from
that marcus thanks once again really
appreciate you coming on the show dude
thanks so much no worries everything
will be available for all of marcus's
links over at the website
businessgrowth.marketing
and if you enjoy the show be sure to hit
subscribe business growth show where the
heck you get your podcasts we interview
business leaders each and every week to
provide actionable tips across marketing
across sales or the goal to help you
grow your business and grow your revenue
and with that we'll catch you on the
next episode thanks for tuning in